Israel is vowing to step up operations
against the militant group Hezbollah in
Syria and Lebanon the country's defense
minister saying that Israel will
actively pursue the islamist
organization wherever it operates the
two sides have traded fire since the
start of the war in Gaza strikes on
Friday targeted Hezbollah facilities in
Northern Syria and Israel's military
says that it killed a senior commander
in Lebanon footage from the Israeli
military showing the Fatal drone St in
the area of bazua in Lebanon it said Ali
Abid alhassan Naim was a deputy
commander of hezbollah's rocket and
missiles unit and responsible for
conducting attacks against Israeli
civilians Israel's defense minister y
Galant said the Army was changing its
approach and warned it would not
hesitate to act further a
field we're actually turning from
defending to pursuing
Hezbollah we will reach any place that
Hezbollah is
operating
that goes for Beirut balak Ty sidon
naatia across the area and it's true
also for far more places such as
Damascus and what's going on in HS and
Hama in any place we need to operate we
will
act earlier strikes in Northwestern
Syria targeted rocket Depot belonging to
the Iranian back militant group near the
Northwestern city of
Aleppo according to the UK based
monitoring group Syrian Observatory for
human rights a large number of Syrian
soldiers were also among those killed
dozens of civilians were also
injured across the border residents in
the northern Israeli town of schoi
cleaned up debris around their houses
after the area was hit by multiple
rockets on
Thursday since hamas's terror attack on
October 7th Israel and Hezbollah have
been trading fire across lebanon's
Southern border as Hezbollah shows its
support for Hamas both groups are
considered terrorist organizations by
multiple
countries over for more now I'm joined
by DW's bayout Studio Chief Muhammad sha
Muhammad good to see you let's talk
about the claims of this Hezbollah
Commander being killed if if it's true
is this a game Cher between Hezbollah
and
Israel well as the report mentioned the
Israeli Army said that the uh Target was
a deputy commander of hb's uh rocket uh
unit hasbullah confirmed the death of
the uh fighter but did not provide
further information on uh his post or
responsibilities now if we look um
further into the way that hasah warned
the fighter it does not give an
impression that he was among the uh top
leadership per se hasah field commander
wiam alwi Remains the highest rank um
personality killed by Israel on January
8th the attention the last several
months of course has been on Hamas now
tonight we're talking again about
Hezbollah can you maybe give an
assessment here about the threat of this
conflict now
escalating yeah well this has been the
question on what is next on on uh this
front this is the biggest question uh
since the clashes uh uh started between
hisbah and is Army on August uh 8th this
question remains really unanswered now
this front has been witnessing a
variable pace of uh tension if if we
could say so sometimes it's really uh
goes high and seems to be on the edge of
a blowup but then again it cools down
and uh seems to be uh back to the
acknowledged Rules of Engagement between
uh both uh parties but there's no doubt
that a miscalculation could uh slip into
a large scale War now uh We've we've
been hearing Israeli officials warning
from this uh scenario while hasah uh uh
in fact is still saying that it it does
it does not want to um uh drag Lebanon
and the whole region into a uh large
scale war and that its actions on this
front is only uh in support of uh Gaza
it's also worth mentioning that Western
powers specifically the Americans and
Europeans are exercising are putting so
much pressure on Lebanon and Israel to
avoid the war and rather try to find a
diplomatic solution and could you give
us the the temperature there inside
Lebanon is there public support at all
for an escalation of this
conflict there's definitely fear in
Lebanon from uh escalating the um um
situation on on the borders no one wants
uh War Lebanon is in the Deep economic
uh crisis and people want at this level
to avoid a war that could uh really
devastate uh their lives more and more
now the past three days have been
witnessing the highest tension on this
border since at least since the start of
the month of uh Ramadan in the last 48
hours at least 16 people were uh killed
in Lebanon including 10 uh first aid uh
Medics and that is unprecedented number
of uh casualties now how much of a
um uh tension this front will witness in
the coming days we still don't know it
might go back to the acknowledged Rules
of Engagement or um just like slip into
a larger scale War as the um
conversation or as the the like Israeli
um uh Army is Keen on um um um like
further going into the operation in Rafa
yeah the volatility it continues that is
for sure ew's bayout bureau chief
Muhammad sha Muhammad we appreciate your
reporting tonight thank
you